---
layout: post
title:  "**My Recipe Generator CLI and Advice**"
date:   2016-12-19 22:49:37 +0000
---

Last week I received the liberty a.k.a "kick in the behind" of completing my very first CLI project. It took several days just to come up with an idea, the idea majestically came to me whilst eating a sandwich. I thought I love food, I love eating, cooking, eating, watching food. . .eating, that's it! I realized that I should make a gem I could personally use, which was quite clear that it should be centered around food. I knew what I wanted to do, now it's time to execute. I went right to my mac, opened up sublime and . . . wait, what do I do? This was the first time there were no training wheels, a blank page, it was daunting, I was nervous, the anxiety kicked in, can I do this? Of course, I can. I've learned all the skills necessary, this is the best time to review and implement those skills in a practical example. When all else fails I know the learn community has got my back and will push me along because no one is left by the wayside here.

The process to make this gem function was strenuous, I realized many mistakes, which turned out to be a great learning experience. Every mistake I made, I annotated it in my notebook, so I would remember them, without repeating it. I looked at several lessons again, different techniques to scraping, what could make this easier, what separates the amateurs code from the professional code. I don't think I've achieved the "professional" level quite yet but I must say that the learning curve is incomparable with reference to my skills before the project. If you can review labs, others work, it helps out significantly. F.Y.I this isn't cheating, see what someone else did, think about why they did it, how does it execute and you'll start memorizing and understanding the code itself so much easier.

My gem was scraped from the website bbcgoodfood.com. I chose this website because of how it looked when I inspected the element, it appeared simple,  and you shouldn't (in my opinion) try to go for an overly complex idea. You want to make sure you grasp everything you're doing, because making tasks simple is key. You can take a look at my first gem <a href="www.github.com/cjhhh/recipe">here.</a> If there is anything I can leave you with in regards to this lab it's to attack it head on, anything new is scary, plan everything out before you start the project. Ask yourself many questions. What do you want it to do?  How should it look? Most importantly, don't skip it, conquer the fear because you'll only become more resilient.

